# automation_tools
-----several automation tools for cyber analytics-----


**1)WFPROJECT** a bash script that takes a memory file or an image file and carved it for extracting data. To do it I used several tools that perform carving and extracting data: Foremost Bulk_extractor Binwalk Strings Volatility First, the user must write the name of the file and make sure its in the current directory, the next thing is to choose the type of file (image file or memory file) After everything done the carving will start and the tools will be used depending on the file type. When the carving and all the tools done, a directory will be created with all the information collected. In addition, at the end of the carving a summary will be displayed with the number of text, executable jpeg, png , documents, pcap and zip files collected.

**2)NRSCRIPT** a bash script that update your linux machine and install several tools: espeak, cupp, geoiplookup, sshd, vsftpd, apache2, hydra, wireshark, sshpass, nmap and nipe. verify anonymously by checking you IP, if the user is not anonymous then the nipe tool will be activated and will change your IP. Then the user must enter IP, user and password to connect to ssh server and do whois and geoiplookup queries by entering Ip address to discover.
3)LogFileCheck a bash script that the user insert a log file to explore. the script identifies brute force attack and displays the results on the screen the script will arrange the log file by the start and the end dates of the attack, total attampts, number of IP addresses during the attack, the ip with the most attacks, successeful and failed logins during the attack including dates, countries (by geoiplookup) and usernames.
 
**3)PTSCRIPT** a bash script for scanning lan and search for vulnerabilities. As soon as the user execute the script, he lan scanning is starting using 'nmap'. The found hosts will display on the screen and scanning for vulnerabilities will start for each host using 'nmap' and 'searchsploit'.After the scans are done, the user will allow to insert a user list fand a password list for brute force using 'hydra'. The user also can choose the option to create a password list by himself using 'crunch'. All the collected information will be in a directory called 'Scan-results'. When the brute-force is over all scanned IP addresses will be displayed and the user will be able to choose by the menu the IP he wants to explore. As soon as the user choose an IP, a new menu will be displayed with the ip's files. A new file will be created called 'report-log' with all the dates and time of beginning and ending of each scan and brute force.

**4)IPtablescript** a bash script for creating firewall rules using iptables automatically. First, a menu will be displayed with the 3 chains (input, output, forward), the user will choose the chain that he wants to work on. The script identifies if the traffic is allow or disallow in this chain and the user can choose if he wants to change it. The user chooses a protocol as well. Four menus will be displayd: 1)for choosing src IP 2)for choosing src port 3)for choosing dst IP 4)for choosing dst port. For each menu the user can choose to specify existing list, creating a list or not to choose at all ( for example the user can choose only src IP and src port) For the user will be the option to do the same actions to the opposite side (INPUT --- OUTPUT) (FORWARD --- FORWARD) new log file will be created with all the new rules with date and time. For the user will be the option to save the changes after reboot as well.

**5)LogFileCheck** a bash script that the user inserts a log file to explore. the script identifies brute force attack and displays the results on the screen the script will arrange the log file by the start and the end dates of the attack, total attempts, number of IP addresses during the attack, the Ip with the most attacks, successful and failed logins during the attack including dates, countries (by geoiplookup) and usernames.
